Assignment 0 (#3)
LaunchCodeEducation/csharp-web-dev-curriculum: content/assignments/hello-world/_index.md

---
title: "Assignment 0: Hello, World!"
date: 2023-01-05T09:57:32-06:00
draft: false
weight: 100
originalAuthor: Courtney  # to be set by page creator
originalAuthorGitHub: speudusa # to be set by page creator
reviewer: # to be set by the page reviewer
reviewerGitHub: # to be set by the page reviewer
lastEditor: # update any time edits are made after review
lastEditorGitHub: # update any time edits are made after review
lastMod: # UPDATE ANY TIME CHANGES ARE MADE
---

### Table of Contents
1. Getting Started
1. Running the Auto-graded Tests
1. Your Task

> 1. Submitting Your Work

Reviewer: Is it possible to add links to these sections?

Use this assignment as a tutorial for running tests in Visual Studio, working in C#, and submitting to GitHub Classroom. Parts 1 and 2 will help you get familiar with both C# and Visual Studio.  Part 3 is where you will code.  Part 4 reviews the submission process.

> 

Reviewer: I did not immediately connect Parts 1 and 2... with the list above. Suggested change:

This assignment is a tutorial for running tests in Visual Studio, working in C#, and submitting to GitHub Classroom.

## Getting Started
Let’s set up the assignment on our computer and learn about its basic structure.

> <!-- TODO: Update Link for Canvas-->

Reviewer: Wouldn't this change for each class?

Author: Yes, and that would be terrible.  I'll format it like the sphinx book.  Students will find the link to GHClassroom in their class canvas as they currently do now.

1. Find Assignment #0 in Canvas and click on the invitation link. After accepting the assignment on the Github Classroom page, go to your assignment repository on GitHub.

1. Follow the instructions to clone your repository and open it in Visual Studio.

> 1. When the solution opens, check out the contents of the Solution Explorer.  You will find two **projects** within the solution:

Reviewer: Suggestion -> Solution(mac) / Solution Explorer(windows) or something similar.

> 1. When the solution opens, check out the contents of the Solution Explorer.  You will find two **projects** within the solution:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. When the solution opens, check out the contents of the Solution Explorer. You will find two **projects** within the solution:
```

Reviewer: There seems to be some inconsistency with spacing after periods. Please double check the document.

 
   * The `HelloWorldAutoGraded` contains the code that you will work with for this assignment. 

>    * The `Hello.Tests` project contains auto-grading tests. You do not need to change any of the code in the testing project.

Reviewer: What is the reason for having the file names be able to be copied?

   {{% notice blue "Note" "rocket" %}}
   If you do not see the **Solution Explorer**, you can open it by selecting the **View** option in the toolbar.
   * Windows Users: **View** > **Solution Explorer**
   * Mac Users:  **View** > **Solution** 
   {{% /notice %}}

1. Inside `HelloWorldAutoGraded`, open up the `SayHelloClass.cs` class.  This is where you will write any code for this assignment.  Within this     class, you will see the following:
   * The `SayHello()` method which is returning `&&&`.
   * `SayHelloClass()` constructor which is empty.  This will remain empty for this assignment.

1. Now, turn your attention to Program.cs in the `HelloWorldAutograded` project. This class will print two strings to the console using the `Console.WriteLine()` method.  
   * The first returns the string value of the `SayHello()` method from the `SayHelloClass`.
   * The second returns the data type of the `SayHello()` method’s output.

1. You are now ready to run the program.  Do the following:

>    * **Mac Users:** Hit the Run button at the top right-hand corner of the window.  Right-clicking on the `HelloWorldAutograded` project and selecting Run Project will also work.

Author: yup. on mine too.  i was mixing it up with the run tests button.

   * **Windows Users:** Click on the solid green triangle next to the name of the `HelloWorldAutograded` project. You can also press F5 to run the project.

1. Visual Studio opens a pane and displays any program output when you run a program. Currently, the program output contains the following:

>    

Reviewer: Hint or Tip -> Where would I find this if mine does not open a pane.  And how to keep it open or pin it

Author: Adding a reminder that there is a walkthrough of visual studio provided in chapter 1 in the note for finding their solution explorer. The walkthrough includes where to find the output.

   ``` console 
   &&&
   System.String
   ```
1. You are ready to run the auto-grading tests.

## Running the Auto-grading Tests

The tests provide feedback about your code before you submit your work.  Use the tests to check your work as you complete the assignment.

> The tests are unit tests for you to use to check your work.  We call them auto-graded tests instead of unit tests in these projects. 

Reviewer: Suggestion -> Also have we mentioned unit tests before?  If not a brief explanation would be nice. 

These tests are unit tests for you to use to check your work.  We call them auto-graded tests instead of unit tests in these projects.  They provide feedback about your code before you submit your work.  Use the tests to check your work as you complete the assignment.  The goal is to have all passing tests.

Let’s learn how to run the tests in Visual Studio.

1. Each assignment will contain a test **project**.  This project contains all of the auto-grading tests and may have more than one test class.  In the Solution Explorer, navigate to HelloTests.cs inside the `Hello.Tests` project. 

> 

Reviewer: Solution / Solution Explorer

   {{% notice blue "Note" "rocket" %}}
   You will not need to open the `Using.cs` file.  This file connects the testing project to the testing library.  This is not a test class.
   {{% /notice %}}

   A **test** is a single method in a test file with `[TestMethod]` above it. 

      ```csharp
      [TestClass]
      public class AutogradingTests
      {
         [TestMethod]
         public void TestToDemonstrateWhatATestMethodLooksLike()
         {
            //test code here
         }
      }
      ```

      A test class may contain many tests. 

      ```csharp
      [TestClass]
      public class AutogradingTests
      {
         [TestMethod]
         public void TestToDemonstrateWhatATestMethodLooksLike()
         {
            //test code here
         }

         [TestMethod]
         public void SecondTestToDemonstrateWhatATestMethodLooksLike()
         {
            //test code here
         }
      }
   ```
1. Run all of your tests using the Test Explorer window.

>    1. Mac Users: 

Reviewer: This opens a Tests Pane on the right hand side the window where one can navigate and run test all together or individually.

      1. **View** > **Tests**  
      1. Select the green triangle on the left of the Test Explorer. 

>       1. Step through the solution until you find the test that failed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      1. In the Test Explorer, step through your solution until you find the failed test.
```

      1. [Guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/mac/testing?view=vsmac-2022#running-tests) to running tests in Visual Studio for Mac
   1. Windows Users 
      1. **Test** > **Windows** > **Test Explorer**
      1. Select the `Run All` icon to run all of your tests. 

>       1. In the Test Explorer, step through your solution until you find the failed test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      1. In the Test Explorer, step through the file tree until you find the failed test.
```

      1. [Guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/test/run-unit-tests-with-test-explorer?view=vs-2022) to running tests in Visual Studio.

> 1. Visual Studio opens a Test Pane to display test results every time it runs a test. 

Reviewer: Test Results pane, at the bottom of the window with all the information of what passed and what failed.

> 1. Visual Studio opens a Test Pane to display test results every time it runs a test. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Visual Studio opens a Test Results Pane, with more detailed information of which tests passed and which tests failed, every time a test is run.
```

> You should see that one of the tests has failed and the other passed.  We have not touched any code yet. Use the Test Pane to navigate into which specific test has failed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should see that one of the tests has failed and the other passed.  We have not touched any code yet. Use the Test Results Pane to navigate into which specific test has failed.
```

>    In this case, the `TestIfSayHelloReturnsCorrectValue()` test, expected our code to output `Hello, World!` Instead, it provided `&&&` causing it to fail.  This particular test has a message about why it failed.  `&&&` is not the correct message.

Reviewer: The message is -> Assert.AreEqual failed. Expected:<Hello, World!>. Actual:<&&&>. Incorrect message displayed.

Might be a change to share some debugging tips about unit tests.  Also set the ground work for creating helpful messages for why your test failed.

Author: added recommended reading for the debugger.  it's a lot, but if anyone wants to explore it now they have a pathway to do so.  they learn more about it in the unit testing chapter.

Reviewer: It took me a second to find this, I feel like it belongs here, thoughts?

Author: I'm going to leave the debugger information in the third section. Debugging is more for general troubleshooting and not unit tests.  This information is more for students who want to learn about it themselves.  Later in the early MVC chapters, we will review the debugger in more depth.

>    The `TestSayHelloReturnTypeIsString()` test passed.  This should pass because the `SayHello()` method is a string method.  You can verify this in line 8 of the `SayHelloClass`.  Use this test to help you explore the Test Pane and testing process. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The `TestSayHelloReturnTypeIsString()` test passed.  This should pass because the `SayHello()` method is a string method.  You can verify this in line 8 of the `SayHelloClass.cs`.  Use this test to help you explore the Test Results Pane and testing process. 
```

1. Try running each test individually before moving on to the next step.  You can select individual tests by right-clicking on the test name either directly in the test class or the Test Explorer window.

>    You will still have the same results as before, but now you have the skills to run tests all together or one at a time.  This is something that may come in handy as you work on larger assignments that may have many tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You will still have the same results as before, but now you have the skills to run tests all together or one at a time.  This is something that may come in handy as you work on larger assignments that have many tests.
```

## Your Task

Your task is simple: make the program print out the string `Hello, World!`. Edit the code in the `SayHelloClass` class, within the `SayHello()` method. Verify your code with the auto-grading tests. 

  {{% notice orange "Warning" "rocket" %}}
   The auto-grading tests are VERY exacting. A difference of a single character will result in a failed test. The tests are also case-sensitive. You’ll need to pay attention to detail to correctly complete your assignments.
  {{% /notice %}}

## Submitting Your Work

Once you pass all of the tests, `add`, `commit` and `push` your code to GitHub.

> Visit your assignment repository page to see the results of your assignment.  If you passed, you'll see a green checkmark. If you see a red X, then your assignment is not yet correct.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Visit your assignment repository page to see the results of your submission.  A green checkmark means the  submission has successfully passed the tests.  If you see a red X, then your submission is not yet correct.
```

Reviewer: Suggest adding after the last sentence -> If you get stuck reach out to your TA or fellow students on slack.
